2024/01/16

I've recorded a lot. No less than 30 albums in a 30-year career. I've played too
little. Of course, there have been the bands with small successes, the memorable
opening acts, the insignificant venues transformed into auditory paradises in
the interludes of an evening, the derisory pay slips. The life of a little
artist eternally in the making, unable to let go of his moorings in the ocean of
music because he's so busy exploring all kinds of paths in all directions (love,
travel, children, writing, cinema). I'm one of those people whose passions
explode in all directions. An attitude not much appreciated by my
contemporaries, who are obsessed with success, domination and excessive
specialization, and for whom not doing something "thoroughly" is tantamount to
wasting their time. Yet music has always been the common thread that binds
everything together and gives coherence to research on all fronts. And
recording, sometimes obsessively, is a method of fixing time and preventing it
from eating away at everything too quickly. But a testimony, however accurate
and honest, is never worth the experience.

Let's take the example of this one-year trip to the South American continent.
Everything has been said, written and filmed about this corner of the world
since man first spoke, wrote and filmed. We could spend a lifetime poring over
these archives. Nothing can replace the biting cold of an evening bivouac on the
altiplano, the taste of burnt corn or the vertigo felt on these roads suspended
in the void. It's the same with music. Recording, mixing, producing,
distributing, collecting, listening to again and again over the years are all
guarantees of an activity that will never produce the pleasure and realism of an
activity practised for its own sake.

Is it the effect of age, of weariness, of this world heading for disaster (in
the sense of losing the star that illuminates it), I can't easily identify the
causes that now lead me to play (great verb) music for myself and those with
ears passing nearby. But if time now passes between two deliveries of "works
compiled according to an agreed format", we must resolve to consider it as
excellent news in the digital noise that surrounds us. So I'm going to do a lot
of playing and too little recording in 2024.
