Is writing a novel like writing music? Can you improvise a text like you can
improvise a solo? Does a text affect our mood like a piece of music?

I have felt a similarity for a long time. As a musician I try to create music
that "tells" something. Pieces with a beginning, an evolution, an end. By
building in surprises, suspense, drops. By evoking atmospheres, states of being,
feelings. By adding style, anchoring in tradition, breaking conventions with
innovation. By searching a lot and sometimes finding. Passages, tunnels, paths
to be cleared. By making mistakes: too much of this, too much of that.

There are risks in publishing music, just as there are in publishing a text.
Everyone has an opinion about music. Everyone is immersed in it. We think we
have found it. We meet with incomprehension. Or worse, disinterest.

I wanted to make these two practices resonate. I had pieces of text like I have
scraps of music in my drawers. Interesting enough for me not to throw them away,
not polished enough to publish. So for a year I set myself the challenge of
writing a piece and a chapter of a novel every month. Communicating, following
each other, observing each other. Not so easy. Music cannot bring the richness
of meaning of words. It can only enhance them. Give them a framework of sounds
that complement them. A bit like a film score, it deepens the viewer's
immersion, helps them enter a story. You must make the sound of the words work
with the notes, the rhythm of the sentence with that of the measure, the logic
of the paragraph with that of the theme, the coherence of the chapter with that
of the piece, the finality of the book with that of the compilation. Leave
nothing to chance and give every idea a chance.

I usually read while listening to music, write while listening to music,
generally work while listening to music. It helps me to concentrate, to isolate
myself. With the double experience of writing and composing, I took great
pleasure in seeking the alchemy. I woven a story that was dear to me and
recorded sounds that coloured the literary work. I hope I have not betrayed
either practice by modestly attempting to overlap them. If some of this pleasure
is felt in reading/listening to Rosemary, I shall be delighted.

> Rosemary : a novel + a music album to be released soon...
